# CLI

```bash
npx gem-book -h
```

## Config file

The `gem-book` command will automatically search for the configuration file `gem-book.cli.{js|json|mjs}` from the current working directory and supports most command line options (combined command line options when provided), for example:

<gbp-raw src="gem-book.cli.json" range="1,3-"></gbp-raw>

> [!TIP]
> If using `json` format, you can add `"$schema": "https://unpkg.com/gem-book/schema.json"` to get type hints,
> if you use `js` format, you can use [jsdoc](https://jsdoc.app/tags-type) to import the type `import('gem-book/common/config').CliConfig`.

## Options

#### `-t, --title <title>`

Specify the document title, read from `package.json` by default or use the current working directory name.

#### `-i, --icon <path>`

Specify the icon path, you can use a full URL or a relative path based on the current working directory.

#### `-o, --output <path>`

Specify the output file directory, the default is `dist`; If it is `json`, it will be used as the output path of `gem-book.json`.

#### `--github <url>`

Specify the GitHub address and it will be rendered in the navigation bar. By default, it will be read from the `package.json` and local `.git` directory.

#### `-b, --source-branch <branch>`

Specify the branch of the document, and finally generate a link to GitHub, default is `main`.

#### `--base <dir>`

Specify the location of the current working directory in the project. By default, the `repository.directory` field of `package.json` will be read, which is useful in Monorepo projects.
Assume your project structure is like this:

```
project/
├── packages
│   ├── module
│   │   ├── docs
│   │   └── gem-book.cli.json # Optional
│   └── ...
└── ...
```

You need to specify `--base`:

```bash
(cd packages/module &&  npx gem-book docs --base packages/module)
```

#### `-d, --source-dir <dir>`

Specify the location of the document directory in GitHub, and finally generate a link to GitHub.

#### `--build`

Output all front-end resources and `<gem-book>` configuration.

#### `--home-mode`

Display the `README.md` / `index.md` in the document root directory in the homepage layout of the website, and the document [metadata](./guide/004-metadata.md) is required.

#### `--nav <title,link>`

Specify the navigation bar link, for example:

```bash
npx gem-book docs \
  --nav Example,https://example.com \
  --nav MyWebsite,https://my.website
```

#### `--ga <id>`

Add [Google Analytics v4](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4) support.

#### `--template <path>`

Specify the HTML template path, you can execute additional `Javascript` or other `meta` elements in the template.

#### `--i18n`

Specify whether the document directory supports [Internationalization](./guide/002-i18n.md).

#### `--ignored <string>`

Ignore files, use [`anymatch`](https://github.com/micromatch/anymatch), default is `**/node_modules/**`.

#### `--plugin <name or path>`

Load the plugin, you can add more than one. You can also provide custom plugin using URLs or relative paths.

#### `--theme <name or path>`

Use built-in themes or custom themes.

#### `--footer <string>`

Custom render footer content.

#### `--display-rank`

Display the value used for sorting in the url.

#### `--site <url>`

Specifying a URL will generate `sitemap.xml`, which is beneficial for crawlers that do not support ShadowDOM.

#### `--json`

Only output the configuration of `<gem-book>` in json format, default is `gem-book.json`.

#### `--config <path>`

Specify cli config file path.

#### `--debug`

Output debugging information: `gem-book.json`, `stats.json`, `source-map`.
